you're born into open water and you
start moving instantly your body tips
forward and your head lifts just enough
to spot your mother swimming ahead so
you start following her you don't know
why you're doing it but your body keeps
matching her position and your path
lines up with hers as you swim forward
then you get unlucky there's a dark
shape ahead that starts getting bigger
and at first it's hard to tell what it
is it's coming straight toward you and
it isn't turning or slowing down it's
just getting closer every second you
keep swimming until it's near enough for
you to see the head and the teeth moving
side to side and that's when you realize
it's a shark it keeps coming and you try
to swim faster but your body doesn't
respond the way you want it to your
muscles don't move evenly your head
lifts too far and your tail pulls
sideways before you can make another
move you stop completely and freeze in
place the shark swims even closer but
your mother sees it and turns then
without waiting she swims forward
straight at the shark from below two
more females break from the group and
follow behind her one slightly higher
and the other wide to the left none of
them change speed or position as they
close in your mother hits first slamming
into the shark's stomach to knock it off
line while the others crash into the
side one after the other hitting hard
enough to push it off balance and turn
its body away from you your mother spins
back around and strikes it again near
the head and this time the shark stops
moving forward and begins to turn by the
time she comes back around it's already
swimming in the other direction she
swims back to you and you move in behind
her falling back into place just under
her tail it's your first day and things
are only going to get more interesting
you're 1 month old now and you still
swim beside your mother the others
circle around you they move when she
moves and close in when something feels
off then a group of males cuts across
the edge of the pod they don't slow down
or keep their distance they chose your
mother one slams into her shoulder and
another drops low and drives straight
into her belly she kicks and twists but
they keep going hitting from both sides
forcing her downward then one grabs hold
and drags her deeper while the rest
follow behind him you turn to follow but
one of them sees you and blocks off your
path he turns once and comes straight at
you with his jaws open ready to bite
he's not chasing you he's trying to take
you out you freeze in place and brace
your body but he keeps coming then your
auntie slams into his side before he can
reach you another one crashes into his
ribs and a third rises from below and
knocks him off balance with her head
they don't chase him and they don't
finish it they hit him once each and
then return to the group you stay in the
center and don't leave the formation
thinking about what just happened you
don't see your mother for 3 days she
returns on the fourth her body covered
in scrapes blood slipping down her side
her movements are slow and uneven she
doesn't look at anyone and she doesn't
make a sound she just finds her place
and keeps swimming forward you fall in
beside her and stay there skip forward a
bit and you're one year old now you've
started to hunt but not because you're
hungry and in need of food you just do
it for fun you follow your mother
through shallow water until she speeds
up and moves towards a group of fish you
break away from her side and chase one
of the smaller fish that splits from the
group she turns in from the opposite
direction and cuts it off before it
escapes you both move without needing to
look she speeds up and you slow down she
faints one way and you block the other
the fish jolts every time one of you
moves trapped in a loop it can't break
and that's when the fun begins the fish
darts forward and cuts left but you stay
on it matching its path and pushing it
toward open space where it can't turn
back you hold position on one side while
your mother comes in on the other
forcing it into a trap it twists and
tries to slip through a gap but you
press in and close it off you lunge
first and tear off a piece near the gill
and your mother follows with a deeper
bite through the middle you both turn
and strike again hitting the same spots
over and over until the fish stops
resisting its muscles twitch then it
floats and you swim away without
finishing it you chase down another one
on your own closing the distance fast
and pinning it near the surface where it
can't dive you block it from above cut
its path below and wait for it to wear
itself out when it slows down you grab
it and hold it still you don't eat it
you just want to feel it thrash then
something moves near your tail another
dolphin closes in fast from the right
coming close enough that your bodies
almost touch you tighten your grip on
the fish and turn sharply across his
path he follows for a moment but you
hold your line and don't let him get
close again he backs off and turns away
you let the fish drop and watch him swim
off you don't follow and instead you
dive and chase something smaller just to
see if you can catch it and when you do
you let it go again without biting
you're not hunting because you need to
you're doing it because you figured out
how you're 5 years old when you decide
to leave your mother's group for the
past few years you've been spending more
and more time on your own drifting away
during hunts swimming further than you
should and now it just feels like the
right time to stop going back you swim
for a few hours following nothing until
you spot a group of juveniles moving
together across open water you fall in
beside them and match their pace and
when no one pushes you away you stay
three of them stand out they break off
from the group without saying anything
so you follow them keeping just behind
as they swim across a flat stretch of
ocean that's when you bond you find a
puffer fish and one of them stuns it you
move in and let it sting you the effect
hits almost instantly so you back off
and pass it on one of your buddies bites
it next and starts spinning clicking and
drifting in circles you all take turns
with it until the high fades and the
feeling's gone then you kill it and go
looking for more but this time one of
the dolphins hangs back he doesn't bite
he just watches from a distance you echo
at him loudly pushing him to join in
when he still doesn't move your friend
rams into his side and knocks him off
balance spinning him around you laugh
and swim off without waiting he drifts
behind for a while then turns the other
way and disappears you don't see him
anymore again it's just the three of you
now and from that point on you don't
swim alone anymore you're 10 years old
now and you're still moving with the
same two males you bonded with years ago
you've grown stronger faster and more
coordinated the three of you move like
one body now reacting before the others
even need to signal you begin searching
for something else a female to follow
you swim until one drifts into view
alone and slightly behind the others
she's moving slow enough to make herself
an easy target your group shifts
position without communicating one moves
to the left one cuts to the right and
you stay behind she notices and picks up
speed but the formation holds every path
she tests is already blocked before she
even tries she dives and your friend
drops with her she spins and you match
the movement she swims up toward the
surface and finds one of you already
waiting no matter which way she moves
someone is there before she gets the
chance you don't touch her you just
follow always close enough to force a
reaction but never far enough to give
her space every time she slows the gap
tightens you take turns keeping pressure
on her one behind one to each side
always rotating and adjusting the sun
rises and drops again the group rests
but she doesn't even when the ocean
calms and the current slows you keep
pressing in she tries to stop once just
for a breath but your friend cuts across
her path and she keeps moving it goes on
for hours you've seen others do it
you've watched the way older groups hunt
in teams not just for food but for
control you've watched and learned and
now the roles are reversed now you're
the ones being watched you're 15 years
old now and you've learned that
sometimes it's not about the female and
it's not about the chase it's about
reminding everyone that you're still a
menace you see a group ahead of you all
males surrounding a single female who's
bigger than most she spins slowly and
keeps her head down while they circle
her flashing their sides and clicking
fast like they're competing you weren't
invited but that doesn't matter you
don't care about her you care that they
think they're in control you aim for the
one nearest the edge and slam your head
into his side hard enough to flip him
over his skin tears along the ribs and a
long red line opens up across his side
he swims away and sinks into the deep
the others stop spinning and break
formation one of them charges at your
shoulder and knocks you off angle
another comes from behind and clips your
spine with his jaw you spin to strike
back but you can't land a clean hit you
fight harder than you need to just to
drag it out you take the hits and you
give a few back then you twist low dive
beneath them and pull out of the chaos
with scratches along your tail and two
fresh scars you leave the fight without
winning but you don't feel like you lost
the next day you're still sore when you
hear something small moving near the
rocks so you go to check it's a porpus
calf young enough that it doesn't know
what you are you echo once just to see
how it reacts then you charge it doesn't
scream it just takes the hit full force
and goes limp you grab it once bite down
hard enough to feel the bones snap then
let it sink you don't eat it and you
don't look back you just swim off and
leave it there and for the first time
since the fight you feel better you're
25 years old now you've killed calves
chased rivals torn open bellies and
circled bodies that stopped moving hours
before anyone noticed but you've never
tried a human you see a group near the
surface splashing around in a way that
doesn't make sense one of them drifts
too far from the rest too far to get
pulled back in time if something were to
happen so you circle once from below
once from the side a little closer each
time until they pause and look around
but it's already too late because you've
decided you circle until a narrow gap
appears and then you swim straight in
without thinking just acting before the
moment disappears you bump their leg to
see what they'll do they start screaming
and panicking so you pass underneath
them and roll once then rise up fast
clamp your jaw around their waist and
drag them down they fight and kick at
your head but you don't let go the more
they panic the deeper you pull them you
hold steady while their arms flail and
the last burst of air slips from their
mouth in a string of bubbles that drift
back toward the surface they manage to
twist free but only for a second you
grab their foot drag again and this time
they stop fighting then you let go they
shoot upward and scream before they
break the surface the rest of the group
rushes in pulling them toward the boat
while shouting in sounds that don't make
any sense to you you watch from below
the surface as they panic and swim away
faster than they ever did before next
time you won't let go skip forward a bit
and you're 29 years old you see boats in
the distance lined up in a way that
doesn't feel right you followed them
before and it's always meant food so
your group follows them without thinking
nothing feels off until the clicks start
to thin one of the dolphins beside you
drifts to the edge and disappears then
another cuts downward and doesn't return
you echo once and hear only emptiness
you echo again and the reply comes back
wrong you swim forward and see the water
ahead is red you turn and try to leave
but the way out is already gone the
boats behind you have moved the surface
breaks and something crashes into the
sea you dive fast trying to cut bath it
but a net tightens around your belly and
pulls your body sideways you kick your
tail against the rope but it only gets
tighter then you get pulled up a hand
grabs your back you spin and knock one
away but another catches you from behind
you slam into the deck of the boat and
the sound disappears they drag you to
the edge and pull you off your body hits
the beach you try to slide back into the
water but your flippers dig in and hold
you still you lie there waiting to
breathe then they cut you open you feel
it once then nothing they call it
tradition and after you stop moving they
kill the rest one by one all the way to
the end over the next few days 1 1500
more of your kind will die life as a
dolphin might be rough but there's
another animal out there that has it way
worse trust me it's wild check out the
video and see for yourself